Title: FW25 Kidswear trends focus on a future defined by possibility, not limitations
Date: Dec 5, 2024

loading... As the new year draws closer, the team at FS looks forward to the leading narratives for Kidswear for FW25. In our first trend Quintessence, we imagine a future defined by possibility, not limitation. In this protopia, the ideal can be achieved when perspective is at play; as what at first may appear typical, is at second glance most atypical. Whether it is a cleverly crafted color palette, a tweaked proportion, or an out of place detail, it is this subtle dose of detail that makes the ordinary, extraordinary. With a sustainable and cost-effective consideration for cross-seasonal styles, there is a growing emphasis on capsule collections that capture both the function of meaningful minimalism and the emotional, intangible tug. Quintessence encapsulates the "most perfect example," the compromise between the need for practical essentials and the desire for something different. As we continue to explore gender inclusive and cross-seasonal collections, the subtle skill of tweaking the mundane to must-have status will be of the utmost importance.
For our second trend, Sumptuous, immersing oneself in a funhouse of the five senses, this narrative takes us on a sensorial roller coaster with comforting design that is equally as luxurious as it is mentally beneficial. Inspired by the notion of child-led design, this story seeks no limits with curious concoctions that inspire new iterations of classic silhouettes, mismatched details, and charged color combinations that invoke joyful, emotional design. Here, the looks exude a raw opulence, a one-of-a-kind heirloom-like quality to materials that are both generously tactile and rich in crafty details. Often abundant in rich colors and indulgent textures, the looks cultivate and even flaunt nature’s many awe-inspiring naturally occurring phenomena while maintaining their integrity and staying true to Indigenous wisdom and craft practices.
As we seek meaning in this ambiguous world of wonder, our final story Fathom takes us on a journey into uncharted terrains where a child’s boundless curiosity and imagination fuels an exploratory escape to the undiscovered corners of our own planet and beyond. Here, we venture into an AI-inspired realm where the familiar is slightly altered and turned into a lucid dream state. Alluring details and oddly enticing combinations are almost unbelievable, showcasing the far-reaching possibilities of dreamy, only imagined designs. Celestial influences appear in dreamy surface dimensions while illusory details inspire outerwear and activewear for a ready-for-anything, adaptive functionality. A softer futurism is evoked through a gentler color palette and malleable shapes that provide both a protective layer and a comforting cocoon.