Title: Trends from Istanbul Modest Fashion Week 2024
Date: May 28, 2024

loading... Called “one of the boldest fashion trends globally” by Ozlem Sahin Ertas, CEO of Modest Fashion Weeks by Think Fashion Co, the influence of modest fashion on mainstream wardrobes is set to grow. Fashion United has put together the latest trends spotted at Istanbul Modest Fashion Week 2024 (IMFW24), which took place from 25th to 27th April. The event hosted 25 fashion shows and 29 brand booths and brought together designers, brands, influencers and modest fashion icons, industry leaders, retailers, media professionals and fashion enthusiasts from all over the world. The fashion shows were spread over two days and presented a diverse range of modest fashion labels from 14 countries - there was Australian label Akkoia; Niharika Momtaz from Bangladesh; Canadian label Mirah; Egyptian label MRGD; Benang Jarum, Buttonscarves and Nada Puspita from Indonesia; Iranian label Chee, Afrik Abaya from Nigeria; Ahsannazir from Pakistan; Palestinian label Sineen Haute Couture; Sedžda Zukorlić from Serbia; South African label Mishah;  Hilal Oğuzkan, Hukka Design, Imannoor, Marina, Miha, Rafaello, Serpil, Terzi Dükkanı and Zems from Turkey; Fashion by Shehna and Rabail Riaz from UAE and US-based label Citizens of the World. This year’s theme of the Modest Fashion Week was “A Unique Fashion Call for Solidarity” and guest of honour was haute couture label Sineen from Palestine. The collection titled “From Dust to Light” consisted of modest evening gowns and bridal dresses. The colours of the Palestinian flag — green, red, black and white — were the prominent colours, the latter “symbolising the
light and hope to see the dove of peace” according to the label. While some bold colours and patterns were seen on the runways, some labels opted for neutral and gold tones like Mishah from South Africa, Mirah from Canada, Terzi Dükkanı and Rafaello from Turkey and Sedžda Zukorlić from Serbia. Turkish designer Hilal Oğuzkan’s collection featured embroidery, sparkles and bold silhouettes. Rafaello’s ready-to-wear FW24 collection was inspired by the fairy chimneys of Turkey’s Cappadocia featuring brown, black nude tones and whites. Long wests could be seen, as well as masculine blazers and coats mostly in solid colours but also leopard prints and fur. Sedžda Zukorlić’s Balkan-inspired collection used nudes, whites, golds and sparkles for pieces made from premium materials and techniques that led to a fusion of cultures. While the aforementioned labels showcased subdued colours, others like MRGD, Serpil and Citizens of the World went all out with their colourful ready-to-wear collections. Inspired by the architecture and colours of his home town Lahore, designer Ahsan Nazir’s collection focused on different shades of the colour pink, featuring long loose satin dresses. Fashion By Shehna, Benang Jarum, Chee, Miha and Nada Puspita showed some of the most unique collections at Modest Fashion Week. Fashion By Shehna complemented their collection that featured various silhouettes including figure-hugging dresses with corsets as well as long loose dresses by interesting face accessories, while Benang Jarum relied on big flowers and stripes to capture the audience’s attention. Miha’s dreamy collection was dominated by pastels, lace, florals and bows, which made the audience feel like they were in a movie. Chee’s collection featured historical and traditional elements.  “From suits and ties to traditional elements and embroideries, from colourful patterns to bold hair accessories, the collection basically included different mini collections in itself, surprising the audience with each look,” was the verdict. Nada Puspita’s majestic collection in muted greens and burgundies featured small flowers, embroideries and gold tones. Modest fashion icons Halima Aden and Rawdah Mohamed walked the runways of IMFW24 as well as influencers Fatma Husam and Niki Shaw. Aden walked for Indonesian brand Buttonscarves in a unique off-white piece and for Turkish modest swimwear brand Marina, wearing a blue printed burkini with a kimono. Mohamed was seen on the runway in a silk piece with contrasting colours by Turkish label Imannoor while Husam showcased Australian label Akkoia’s botanical-themed ready-to-wear collection with a floral dress in pastel pink with lace details. Shah walked for Turkish label Hukka Design all in black to contrast their otherwise colourful ready-to-wear collection. Also read: 